INTRO

This folder contains the code I've written for image stitching and mapping. It's meant to take a
series of pictures taken from the drone and put them together to create one big panorama to be
submitted as the map of the area. I've had success stitching small groups of images together, but
no matter how many ways I try, I keep running into similar issues, and no resources I've found or
reached out to has been able to help me overcome them. The definition of insanity is trying the
same thing over and over again and hoping for different results, and I feel that's about where I
am, which is why I've decided to give in. I've documented and annotated my code for ease of
understanding for the next person, and the following is a summary of what works, what doesn't, and
some possible steps to take moving forward.



WHAT WORKS

1. Key point detection with SIFT algorithms has worked well for matching up individual images. The
current process does this over and over again, and rarely fails to find key points in common as
long as the images have some significant overlap.

2. The time for the program to run has been good so far. I haven't measured it exactly, but it
takes a bit less than a second to process every new image added to the panorama. I'm sure this
could be sped up a bit if it wasn't overwriting and reading the panorama image every time. I have
it run that way right now for debugging and analysis.

3. Perspective warping has been successful for images in small groups. As long as the perspectives
are similar (which they should be with a stable camera mount), they shouldn't be too problematic.
The lines between shots are definitely visible, but the perspectives are matching very well.



WHAT DOESN'T

1. If you look at the images taken by the old camera you're working with, you'll see a bit of a
fisheye effect. This has proven to be very problematic. When you warp an image's perspective, that
amplifies the fisheye effect, which can be seen very clearly with >4 images. I'm not sure if the
new camera has a similar fisheye effect, but if it does, you'll need to find a way to undo that
effect before processing the image through a stitching algorithm.

2. The lighting changes between images are quite visible, which could get some points docked for
the map. This isn't too major of an issue right now, but I could see it becoming a bigger issue
with much larger groups of images. Some of this could be fixed with a more complex mask, but you
can't really control or predict how the sun and clouds will mess with your shots.

3. The program gets lost if it can't find enough good matches to stitch one image and the next. I
have it set to throw a runtime error if if there aren't enough good matches, but sometimes things
go wrong elsewhere and one panorama just doesn't look right. Each panorama builds off the last, so
if one gets messed up, everything from that point forward is screwed. It would help to figure out
all the places things can go wrong and how to detect a bad panorama so one bad apple doesn't always
ruin the whole batch.



POTENTIAL WAYS FORWARD

1. GPS-based stitching has been suggested as an improvement, but I haven't found a way to combine
it with the SIFT method, and neither has Chhavi. It would be an entirely new approach that would
require brand new sample images paired with coordinates from a drone in order to test. This could
be a solution to the "one bad apple" problem, but the perspectives could look off if the fisheye
problem isn't dealt with. I chose to stick with my one approach and try to improve it, but if you
too feel the desire to give up and try something totally different, it's an alternate approach.

2. Mess with the actual camera you're using and see if there's a fisheye effect. If there is, I'd
recommend working on finding a way to un-fisheye the pictures in the code before running them
through the stitcher. The program does its best to match the perspectives, but the less work it has
to do the better, and a flat perspective would provide it with the least work.

3. Figure out a way to root out bad pictures / panoramas automatically. If one picture gets blurry
or something flies in front of the camera, it could mess up the whole map. Figuring out a way to
automatically find bad images/combinations and remove them will inevitably become a necessary step
when working with much larger groups of images. You could probably do it manually, but I'm not sure
how much time you'll have for that at the competition.

4. Completely disregard everything I've said/done and do something else. I've been working on this
for way too long and have gotten way too little done. Don't listen to me. But do let me know if you
find something that does work; I've gotten a little too invested.